---
layout: post
title: "Vim notes"
description: "My useful Vim notes."
category: notes
tags: [vim]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Some Vim commands
=================
Folding:
--------
- `zf#j` Creates a fold from the cursor down # lines
- `zf%`
- `zf/string` creates a fold from the cursor to string
- `zj` moves the cursor to the next fold
- `zk` moves the cursor to the previous fold
- `zo` opens a fold at the cursor
- `zO` opens all folds at the cursor
- `zm` increases the foldlevel by one
- `zM` closes all open folds
- `zr` decreases the foldlevel by one
- `zR` decreases the foldlevel to zero
- `zd` deletes the fold at the cursor
- `zE` deletes all folds
- `[z` move to start of open fold
- `]z` move to end of open fold
:edit. or :e.
-------
The native file explorer.  
:Explore. or :E  
:vsplit. or .vsp.  
`:Sex or` `:Vex`  
`%` add a new file  
`d` create a directory  

Recording & Play
----------------
1. `q` to record
2. `{0-9a-zA-Z}` bufferName
3. Recording...
4. `q` to startop
5. `[count]@bufferName` to Play

Vim plugins introduction:
=========================

ack.vim
-------
Perl module  

AutoColse
---------
Using this script, typing ``(`` will result in (|), where | is the cursor position.  
The paired characters are: [, (, {, ", '  

Better-CSS-Syntax-for-Vim
-------------------------
Highlights for full CSS2, most of HTML5 & CSS3  

csapprox
--------
This plugin makes GVim-only colorschemes Just Work in terminal Vim, as long as the terminal supprots 88 or 256 colors.  

ctrlp.vim
---------
__file__, __buffer__, __mru__ and __tag__ finder for VIM  
##### Basic Usage #####
*Press `<c-p>` or run `:CtrlP` to invoke  
Once Ctrlp is open  
*Press `<c-f>` and `<c-b>` to switch between find file, buffer, and MRU file modes.  
*Press `<c-d>` to switch to filename only search instead of full path.  

HTML-AutoCloseTag
-----------------
Automatically closes HTML tag once you finish typing it with >.  


matchit.zip
-----------
Allow you to configure `%` to match more than just single character.  

neocomplcache
-------------
Performs keyword completion by making a cache of keywords in a buffer.Every work you typed will be cashed.  
*Using `<c-n>` to select next matching from matching list and `<c-p>` to select previous one.  

nerdcommenter
-------------
NERD commenter provides many different commenting operations and styles.  
Notes: `<Leader>` is the leader key in VIM. Default leader key is \, but you can change it in .vimrc file with   
`let mapleader = ','`  
*`[count]|<Leader>|cc`  
Comment out the current line or text selected in visual mode.  
  
*`[count]|<Leader>|cn`  
Same as |`<Leader>|cc` but forces nesting.  
  
*`[count]|<Leader>|c<space>`  
Toggles the comment of the selected lines.  
  
*`[count]|<Leader>|cm`  
Comments the given lines using only one set of multipart delimiters.  
  
*`[count]|<Leader>|ci`  
Toggles the comment state ofthe selected lines individually.  
  
*`[count]|<Leader>|cs`  
Comments out the selected lines ``sexily``  
  
*`|<Leader>|c$`  
Comments the current line from the cursor to the end of line  
..
*`|<Leader>|cA`..
Adds comment delimiters to the end of line and goes into insert mode between them.  
  
*`[count]|<Leader>|cl`  
*`[count]|<Leader>|cb`  
The delimiters are aligned down the left or both sides.  
  
*`[count]|<Leader>|cu`  
Uncomments the selected lines.  
  
nerdtree
--------
The NERD tree allows you to explore your filesystem and to open files and directories.  
o.......Open files, directories and bookmarks....................  
go......Open selected file, but leave cursor in the NERDTree.....  
t.......Open selected node/bookmark in a new tab.................  
T.......Same as 't' but keep the focus on the current tab........  
i.......Open selected file in a split window.....................  
gi......Same as i, but leave the cursor on the NERDTree..........  
s.......Open selected file in a new vsplit.......................  
gs......Same as s, but leave the cursor on the NERDTree..........  
O.......Recursively open the selected directory..................  
x.......Close the current nodes parent...........................  
X.......Recursively close all children of the current node.......  
e.......Edit the current dif.....................................  
  
`<CR>`...............same as |NERDTree-o|.  
double-click.......same as the |NERDTree-o| map.  
middle-click.......same as |NERDTree-i| for files, same as  
                   |NERDTree-e| for dirs.  
  
D.......Delete the current bookmark .............................  
  
P.......Jump to the root node....................................  
p.......Jump to current nodes parent.............................  
K.......Jump up inside directories at the current tree depth.....  
J.......Jump down inside directories at the current tree depth...  
`<C-J>`...Jump down to the next sibling of the current directory...  
`<C-K>`...Jump up to the previous sibling of the current directory.  
  
C.......Change the tree root to the selected dir.................  
u.......Move the tree root up one directory......................  
U.......Same as 'u' except the old root node is left open........  
r.......Recursively refresh the current directory................  
R.......Recursively refresh the current root.....................  
m.......Display the NERD tree menu...............................  
cd......Change the CWD to the dir of the selected node...........  
  
I.......Toggle whether hidden files displayed....................  
f.......Toggle whether the file filters are used.................  
F.......Toggle whether files are displayed.......................  
B.......Toggle whether the bookmark table is displayed...........  
  
q.......Close the NERDTree window................................  
A.......Zoom (maximize/minimize) the NERDTree window.............  
?.......Toggle the display of the quick help.....................  
  
-----------------------------------------------------------------  

PIV
---
PHP Integration for Vim.  

Puppet-Syntax-Highlighting
--------------------------
Syntax Highlighting for Puppet.  

python-mode
-----------
Allows you to use the pylint, rope, pydoc, pyflakes, pep8, mccabe.  


python.vim
----------

python_match.vim
----------------
Using `%` and `g%` to matching if/elif/else, try/except/catch, for/continue/break, and while/continue/break.  
* d]% should delete until the end of the current block.  
* v]%d do the same.  
* V]%d makes it linewise  
  
pythoncomplete
--------------
*Dynamic type deduction (without actually evaluating statements)  
*Local visibility handling (will complete from all parent scopes).  
*completeopt=preview support, displaying python docstrings  
*Function argument completion (whenever possible)  
  
rails.vim
---------

sessionman.vim
--------------
Vim provies a `:mksession` command to save the current editing session. This plugin is helps to work with Vim sessions.


snipmate-snippets
-----------------
This plugin implements some of TextMate's snippets features in Vim.  
It also contains a very complete set of snippets for use with snipmate or NeoComplCache.
Ues `Tab` to trigger snippets.
##### Some snippets #####
* c: `inc`  `inc_global` `cl` `def` `do` `el` `for` `forr` `fpf` `fun` `if` `main` `map` `ns` `once` `pr` `readfile` `st` `t` `td` `tds` `vector` `wh`  
* css: `cl` `#`

syntastic
---------

tabular
-------

tagbar
------

tlib_vim
--------

vim-addon-mw-utils
------------------

vim-colors-solarized
--------------------

vim-colors
----------

vim-colorschemes
----------------

vim-cucumber
------------

vim-easymotion
--------------

vim-fugitive
------------

vim-json
--------

vim-less
--------

vim-markdown
------------

vim-nerdtree-tabs
-----------------

vim-powerline
-------------

vim-preview
-----------

vim-snipmate
------------

vim-surround
------------

vim-web-indent
--------------

vundle
------
